<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-model href="schema/tei_all.rng" type="application/xml" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="schema/tei_all.rng" type="application/xml" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0">
  <teiHeader>
      <fileDesc>
         <titleStmt>
            <title>Indenture of Edward Garrison</title>
         </titleStmt>
         <publicationStmt>
            <p>Publication Information</p>
         </publicationStmt>
         <sourceDesc>
            <p>Information about the source</p>
         </sourceDesc>
      </fileDesc>
      <msDesc>
         <p>in English, printed (invariant parts), with handwriting (variant parts), containing both signatures and seals</p>
      </msDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
      <body>
         <div1 type="certification">This Indenture
<div2 type="subject">WITNESSETH That <name type="person">Edward Garrison</name> by and with the
consent of his father</div2>
<div2 type="terms">
hath put himself, and by these presents
  doth voluntarily, and of his own free will and accord,
put himself <occupation>Apprentice</occupation> to <name type="person">Daniel Drais</name>
to learn his Art, Trade and Mystery of a <occupation>Sail maker</occupation>
and after the manner of an Apprentice, to serve the said <name type="person">Daniel Drais</name>
  from the day of the date hereof,
for and during, and to the full end and term of <date when="18241127" dur="P6Y2M6D">six years two months and
six days</date> — next ensuing During all which term the said
[a]pprentice his said master faithfully shall serve, his secrets keep, his lawful com-
mands every where readily obey. He shall do no damage to his said master, nor
see it done by others, without letting or giving notice thereof to his said master.
He shall not waste his said master's goods, nor lend them unlawfully to any.—
He shall not commit fornication, nor contract matrimony within the said term—
He shall not play at cards, dice, or any other unlawful game, whereby his said
master may have damage. With his own goods, nor the goods of others, without
license from his said master, he shall neither buy nor sell. He shall not absent
himself day nor night from his said master's service, without his le[a]ve, nor haunt
ale-houses, taverns, or play-houses, but in all things behave himself as [a f]aithful ap-
prentice ought to do, during the said term. And the said master shall use the ut-
most of his endeavours to teach, or cause to be taught or instructed, the said ap-
prentice in the trade [or my]stery of Sail making
and procure and provide for him sufficient meat, drink, clothing
lodging, and washing, fitting for an apprentice, during the said term /of/ to receive
one quarters right schooling during each winter of the term
</div2><div2 type="binding">
And for the true performance of all and singular, the covenants and agreements
aforesaid, the said parties bind themselves each unto the other, firmly by these
presents. In Witness whereof, the said parties have interchangeably set their hands
and seals hereunto.
</div2><div2 type="effective_date">

DATED <date when="18241127">the twenty seventh day of November Annoque Domini,
one thousand eight hundred and twenty four
</date>
</div2><div2 type="acknowledgement">
Taken and acknowledged before me,
one of the Aldermen in and for the
<name type="place">City of Philadelphia</name>, the day and
year aforesaid. 
</div2>
</div1>
      </body>
  </text>
</TEI>

